# Portfolio-Jim-Moers
**16-02-2022**
For this project my corpus will be about three artists: Floating Points, Pharoa Sanders and the London Symphony Orchestra. These are three artist from very different genres. Floating Points makes mostly idm and dance music, Pharoa Sanders is known for his free jazz and avant-garde jazz and the London Symphony Orchestra plays classical music. However, these three artists released the collaborative album Promises last year, which combines their electronic, jazz and classical sounds. In my reasearch I want to compare the work of the individual artists to their collaborative albums. With this I think it could be interesting to see where the similarities and the differences are of the artists. To represent each artist I will be using their "this is..." playlist from spotify, which are collections of 50 songs chosen by spotify that represent the artists most. 

**21-02-2022**
I have added three plots that represent big differences between the three artists. The first one is a scatterplot that compares instrumentalness with acousticness. The first thing that stands out is that Pharoa Sanders has a lot more songs that are low in instrumentalness than the other two artists. The average instrumentalness for Pharoa Sanders is 0.36, whereas the average instrumentalness for Floating Points and the London Symphony Orchestra are 0.78 and 0.80. Another thing that stands out is that Floating Points has many songs that are high in instrumentalness and very low in acousticness, where the London Symphony Orchestra has many songs that are both high in instrumentalness and high in acousticness. This is no surprise however, because Floating Points makes electronic music, which you would expect to be low in acousticness and the London Symphony Orchestra makes classical music, which you would expect to be very high in acousticness. Pharoa Sanders's songs are very spread out in instrumentalness

The second plot is a scatterplot that shows the tempo compared to the valence. This plot shows that the artists that have a lower tempo, also have a lower valence: the London Symphony Orchestra has an average tempo of 96bpm with a valence of 0.13, Floating points has an average bpm of 113 and 0.25 valence and Pharoa Sanders has 0.41 valence and 114 bpm on average. However, all of these artists have an average valence of below 0.5, so the valence is not very high.

The last plot is a boxplot that shows the danceability of each of the artists. From this you can see that the danceability of Floating Points is very spread out. This means that he has many songs that are danceable, but also many that are not very danceable. Pharoa Sanders and the London Symphony Orchestra both score low in danceability.
